now the two angels came to Sodom in the
evening and lot was sitting in the gate
of Sodom when lots saw them he rose to
meet them and he bowed himself with his
face toward the ground here now my Lords
please turn in to your servants house
and spend the night and wash your feet
then you may rise early and go on your
way no but we will spend the night in
the open square but he insisted strongly
so they turned into him and entered his
house then he made them a feast and
baked unleavened bread and they ate now
before they lay down the men of the city
the men of Sodom both old and young all
the people from every quarter surrounded
the house and they called to lot where
the men who came to you tonight bring
them out to us that we may know them
carnally so lot went out to them through
the doorway shut the door behind him and
said please my brethren do not do so
wickedly xena I have two daughters who
have not known a man
please let me bring them out to you and
you may do to them as you wish only do
nothing to these men since this is the
reason they have come under the shadow
of my roof stand back this one came in
to stay here and he keeps acting as a
judge now we will deal worse with you
than with them so they pressed hard
against the man locked and came near to
break down the door but the man reached
out their hands and pulled lot into the
house with them and shut the door and
they struck the men who were at the
doorway in the house with blindness both
small and great so that they became
weary trying to find the door when the
man said to lot have you anyone else
here son-in-law your sons your daughters
and whomever you have in the city take
them out of this place for we will
destroy this place because the outcry
against them has grown great before the
face of the Lord and the Lord has sent
us to destroy it
sir lot went out and spoke to his
sons-in-law who had married his daughter
get out of this place but the Lord will
destroy this city but to his sons-in-law
he seemed to be joking when the morning
dawned the Angels urged lot to hurry
arise take your wife and your two
daughters who are here lest you be
consumed in the punishment of the city
and while he lingered the man took hold
of his hand his wife's hand and the
hands of his two daughters the Lord
being merciful to him and they brought
him out and set him outside the city
[Music]
so it came to pass when they had brought
them outside that he said escape for
your life do not look behind you nor
stay anywhere in the plane escape to the
mountains lest you be destroyed please
no my Lords indeed now your servant has
found favor in your sight and you have
increased your mercy which you have
shown me by saving my life I cannot
escape to the mountains lest some evil
overtake me and I die
see now this city is near enough to flee
too and it is a little one please let me
escape there is it not a little one and
my soul shall live see I have favoured
you concerning this thing also in that I
will not overthrow this city for which
you have spoken hurry
escape there for I cannot do anything
until you arrive there
therefore the name of the city was
called ZOA the Sun had risen upon the
earth
when lot entered Silla then the Lord
rained brimstone and fire on Sodom and
Gomorrah
from the Lord out of the heavens
so he overthrew those cities all the
plane all the inhabitants of the cities
and one grew on the ground
[Music]
but his wife looked back behind him and
she became a pillar of salt
[Music]
and Abraham went early in the morning to
the place where he had stood before the
Lord when he looked towards Sodom and
Gomorrah and toward all the land of the
plain and he saw and behold the smoke of
the land which went up like the smoke of
a furnace and it came to pass when God
destroyed the cities of the plain that
God remembered Abraham and sent lot out
of the midst of the overthrown when he
overthrew the cities in which lot had
dwelt and lot went up out of Zoar and
dwelt in the mountains and his two
daughters were with him for he was
afraid to dwell in Zorah and he and his
two daughters dwelt in a cave now the
firstborn said to the younger our Father
is old and there is no man on the earth
to come in to us
as is the custom of all the earth come
let us make our father drink wine and we
will lie with him that we may preserve
the lineage of our Father so they made
their father drink wine that night and
the firstborn went in and laid with her
father
and he did not know when she lay down or
when she arose it happened on the next
day that the firstborn said to the
younger indeed I lay with my father last
night let us make him drink wine tonight
also and you go in and lie with him that
we may preserve the lineage of our
Father then they made their father drink
wine that might also and the younger
arose and lay with him
and he did not know when she lay down or
when she arose thus both the daughters
of lot were with child by their father
the firstborn bought a son and called
his name more he is the father of the
myrrh bites to this day and the younger
she also bore a son and called his name
Ben am i he is the father of the people
of amun to this day